# Exercise 5.1

## a) size of the damping factor

### Section 5.1.1 + Section 6.1 + Section 7

A small damping factor helps with convergence. In their original work
Page and Brin choose 0.85, for which they had computed some performance
garuantee, s.t. it would be possible and profitable to perform the powerrank method with.

Choosing a small damping factor does however less acurratly represent
the real structure of the web.

Choosing a larger damping factor will give more accurate results and
will help to better represent the 'real' net structure. This should 
however be handled with care as a damping factor → 1, does not only 
drastically slow things down, but may also cause some matematically
inaccuracies. Those might show in the form of sensitivity issues.

## b) 

### Section 5.1.1

The estimate for the required number of runs is: $\frac{log_{10}τ}{log_{10}\alpha}$. This is true as the convergence is in accordance with the convergence of $\alpha$ which is $\alpha^k \rightarrow 0$.


We have the following given:

$$\frac{log_{10}τ}{log_{10}\alpha}=1000$$

Therefore we can divide the right side by 10 and solve for alpha as it is the only felxible value.

$$\frac{log_{10}τ}{log_{10}\alpha}=100$$
$$log_{10}τ=100* log_{10}\alpha$$
$$10^{log_{10}τ}=10^{100}* 10^{log_{10}\alpha}$$
$$\tau=10^{100}* \alpha$$
$$\alpha = \frac{\tau} {10^{100}}$$

## c)

### Section 6.2.

The google matrix is given as follows:
$$A=\beta \cdot M+(1-\beta)*[\frac{1}{N}]_{NxN}$$
instead of the uniform teleport probability matrix $[\frac{1}{N}]_{NxN}$
one now uses a different personalized one. It uses a vector $v^T$ which
contains custom probabilities. This vector is horizontally concatenated
N times to form the new probability matrix. 

$$A'=\beta \cdot M+(1-\beta)*[v^T]_{1xN}$$


According to the paper google uses such a personalized vector to show 
customers restults which are tailored to their preferences.

Furthermore this customization can be used to avooid spam farming.
By giving untrusted pages a very low teleport probability, they can be 
linked alot, while their rating will stay low.

Thirdly one could also use this to get the Power iteration methode to 
converge quicker.
